The main document elaborates more greatly on what I call the "modern linear" art style of playing cards, but in brief it's the standard style that the most common playing cards are rendered in, in the year 2026 at least (also also other previous years, possibly like for 100 years at this point, or maybe more). This document has miscellaneous reflections on my thoughts and feelings about that style.

I much prefer modern linear to other styles that are used to illustrate playing cards, including trading cards / collectible card games (CCGs/TCGs), and other board games or card games that have custom cards. Those other card types are cool and all, but modern linear reigns supreme.

In fact, I think if you wanted to make a game (in the sense of designing a board or card game with custom cards that people buy in a shop) that had the longevity of poker — which would not necessarily be profitable for you, the maker, but might be a cool project to do anyway — a way to get there would be using the modern linear style. The Magic: The Gathering style art style that dominates everything (including MTG) is good for sales, because people like the art, but for slipping into the public consciousness the modern linear style would probably be better. That's unrelated to my opinion that modern linear is my preferred style. I'm just speculating as to how you could help your odds at creating a game as popular as poker in the long run. Call this the "longness thesis". As opposed to my general "modern linear likingness".

Falshig solitaire is kind of an attempt to take the longness thesis and apply it to the genre of indie roguelike deckbuilders, which are wildly popular, and sometimes can be physically played in physical editions of their respective video games (cf Slay The Spire tabletop edition), but probably are not going to reach poker levels of longevity.

The fact that eg poker is so long-lived and popular and also modern linear might be mostly due to the fact that it is played with commodity cards that everyone has and which can be played in many games people know, which means that trying to just sneak extra cards into that zone might not work — and also is perhaps directly counterproductive to your profit margins as a corporation (you want to be producing premium, proprietary cards). Then again, it might work, and if I invent 100 new playing cards and bequeath them to the world maybe they would be remembered for generations in the playing of a bunch of neat card games. That seems like a cool project and I probably will never get around to it.

As noted in the main document, I've never come across any tarot cards illustrated in modern linear, and one day I would like to.

I guess the tarot thing is sort of a counter example to my idea that modern linear would help you make a popular card game (the longness thesis), since tarot games are fairly popular and yet they don't use modern linear — on the other hand, I have literally never played a tarot game since I have never encountered anyone playing them. So maybe they could be more popular with modern linear tarot cards.

It's rare it is to find new playing card decks in modern linear style. I've seen a couple, but usually novelty decks include wholly different styles of art, to be more faithful to whatever it is the theme of the deck is (eg, birds, planes, US states, attractive women, enemies of the united states). The one that always comes to mind for me was just a Swiss deck (literally had the swiss flag on the back) that I think was German patterned — and even then, it was kind of just modern linear with different colors, which is not so unusual and barely counts as a variation. Also, of course, it had the foreign suits. For whatever reason, the Starbucks deck of cards I at one point acquired (circa 2025?) is probably the closest to a non-traditional version of modern linear playing cards I've ever come across. It's still kings and stuff, but it's drawn differently, but still reminiscent of modern linear, although crossed a little bit with that flat corporate style of the 2010-2020s that some call Humans Of Flat or Corporate Memphis or Allegria or whatever (which is quite distinct from and much worse than modern linear, as modern linear still bears intricacy). Anyway, I liked this deck but I see why one could dislike this deck. There was mixed opinion in my friend group.

Other games would be cool if remade in classical modern linear style.

playing card style clank! = poggers

actually playing card style mtg would also be poggers, frankly

Let me elaborate a little on those gnomic utterances. First of all, if you wanted to make Magic: The Gathering ("MTG") or something like it a 100-year product (which, again, is probably actually contrary to the goal of short-term profit, or at least irrelevant to it), by the longness thesis I have asserted above I think it would do you well to illustrate the cards in a modern linear style. I guess you could still put text on them. Maybe in the torsos of those reversible people pictures. Or you could omit the text and just have an extremely extensive manual listing the effects of every card (lol).

Now that I say that, it occurs to me that mtg is going to be a 100-year product, most likely. It's just that it's going to keep mutating with each new set they release, which is not really the 100-year "business model" I had in mind, if you get my drift. People are not adding new cards — or even really rules — to poker very often. Mtg and so on exist in a parallel universe from traditional card games, and they could bridge over if they wanted to, possibly using the longness thesis, but they probably don't even want to.

By the way, I think it's completely possible for you to make modern linear mtg if you want, which is an interesting legal fact. Here are the details: you cannot copyright a game mechanic. Keep in mind I'm talking about US law here, and also I am not a lawyer this is not legal advice. Mtg was patented at one point (unclear if this would even have held up in court, btw, but it's not an extraordinary claim that it might have) as game mechanics can be if they are sufficiently novel (if you discovered prior art you could have overruled this in court). However, patent terms are relatively short, so that patent is expired. So you are free to construct a game that has a formal system exactly equivalent to mtg, and produce and sell it. I don't think anyone would really buy it, or no more than would buy any other tcg, so I don't think most people would see much of a point to doing this; even if you really like mtg with some variant or earlier ruleset, you could just buy their cards... . Anyway, here's what you couldn't use: their trademarks and copyrights. So, you couldn't call your game MTG or imply they made it. You couldn't use their card art or graphic design. To be safe, I think you shouldn't even use their names for cards. But those constraints are fine for you if you're trying to reskin the game as modern linear in the tradition of normal card games. You could call this game GTM, which might stand for "Game That's not _Magic_". You could also name it after the obscure normal cardgame from the mid 20th century(?) that coincidentally resembles mtg in having lanes of play. I probably will never do this project, because I have other things to do in life.

I guess I should mention that this is kind of related to the extant practice of printing "proxies" in the CCG community, which is printing your own card (either one that looks similar to the real card — such as a photocopy — or perhaps not, and just distinctly marked as being that card) instead of buying the official card. I'm not going to go into all sorts of angles on proxying here, but I'll just note that evidently gtm would be formally equivalent to proxying the whole game mtg and then being very loose with the card art of the proxies.

So, on to Clank! Basically I was playing Clank! the board game. Although I was playing it as a video game. I thought Clank! was pretty neat for its main gimmick, the clank bag, which is an unusual source of randomness for a boardgame with interesting properties. But by the time I was thinking about actually playing it — well, first of all, any time I think about playing a game with more than one type of "token" you collect, I think "that's too many types of token" and lose interest in playing it. Boardgamers love games where you swap little tokens around, I guess. To me they are uninteresting as on some level I feel like I understand them all and there's nothing left there for me. You're just trying to get more tokens. The tokens interconvert based on little rules and circumstance. Wow. But second of all, I was confronted with learning all of the Clank! cards, with goblins or whatever in a mtg style (very common in this industry; see also the style of illustration of the _Dominion_ cards) and I thought "I don't want to stare at these cards long enough to make associations in my brain with what they do". And thus the likingness hit me over the head, and I thought "wow it would be cool to have these but have it look like an actual card game". Incidentally, I think you would not be able to have any goblins anymore. Just wouldn't work with the new theme right.

There is a simple card game named Coup that is standardly played with a small custom deck of play cards. But you could also just play it with a standard (stripped) deck of playing cards. There is a website post about this that is actually surprisingly good: https://depositgenius.com/coup-standard-playing-cards/
